README.md, before:

# OpenConext-attribute-mapper

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/OpenConext/OpenConext-attribute-mapper.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/OpenConext/OpenConext-attribute-mapper)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/github/OpenConext/OpenConext-attribute-mapper/coverage.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/OpenConext/OpenConext-attribute-mapper)

Attribute Mapper which can link federated accounts to a central Identity Provider account in order to gain access to ServiceProviders (e.g. eduGain) that are
not connected to the home institution of the user.

## [Getting started](#getting-started)

### [System Requirements](#system-requirements)

- Java 7
- Maven 3
- MySQL 5.5+

### [Create database](#create-database)

Connect to your local mysql database: `mysql -uroot`

Execute the following to create a local database compliant with travis:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE `attribute_mapper`;
grant all on `attribute_mapper`.* to 'root'@'localhost';
```

### [Building and running](#building-and-running)

This project uses Spring Boot and Maven. To run locally, type:

```bash
mvn spring-boot:run -Drun.jvmArguments="-Dspring.profiles.active=dev"
```

When developing, it's convenient to just execute the applications main-method, which is in [Application](src/main/java/am/Application.java).

With the `dev` modus you don't have to login and you can mimic the different steps:

```bash
http://localhost:8080/mappings?step=2
```

Without the `dev` modus you will need to login and an attempt is made to actually send emails for conformation.

## [Flow](#flow)

The production flow and the Attribute-Mapper role is depicted in [this image](src/main/resources/static/images/attribute-mapper.001.jpeg).

## [Private signing keys and public certificates](#signing-keys)

The SAML Spring Security library needs a private DSA key and the public certificates of the IdentityProviders. The public certificates can be copied
from the metadata.

```bash
mvn -Dtest=am.saml.KeyPairGenerator test
```bash

Or you can generate the private / public key for the Attribute-Mapper SP with openssl:
 
```bash
openssl req -subj '/O=Organization, CN=AttributeMapper/' -newkey rsa:2048 -new -x509 -days 3652 -nodes -out oidc.crt -keyout am.pem
```

The Java KeyStore expects a pkcs8 DER format for RSA private keys so we have to re-format that key:

```bash
openssl pkcs8 -nocrypt  -in am.pem -topk8 -out am.der
```
 
Remove the whitespace, heading and footer from the am.crt and am.der:

```bash
cat am.der |head -n -1 |tail -n +2 | tr -d '\n'; echo
cat am.crt |head -n -1 |tail -n +2 | tr -d '\n'; echo
```

Above commands work on linux distributions. On mac you can issue the same command with `ghead` after you install `coreutils`:

```bash
brew install coreutils

cat am.der |ghead -n -1 |tail -n +2 | tr -d '\n'; echo
cat am.crt |ghead -n -1 |tail -n +2 | tr -d '\n'; echo
```

Add the am key pair to the application.properties file:

```bash
am.private.key=${output from cleaning the der file}
am.public.certificate=${output from cleaning the crt file}
```

Add the EB and central IdP certificates to the application.properties file:

```bash
surfconext_idp.public.certificate=${copy & paste from the metadata}
surfconext_idp.public.certificate=${copy & paste from the metadata}
```

## [Attribute Authority](#attribute-authority)

The Attribute Authority endpoint is protected with Basic Authentication and requires the unspecified nameID

```bash
curl -v -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-type: application/json" --user am_aa_client:secret http://localhost:8080/api/user/urn:collab:person:idin.nl:confirmed
```

## [SAML metadata](#saml-metadata)

The metadata is generated on the fly and is displayed on http://localhost:8080/saml/metadata

Commit message:

Moved from ruby to node for compiling sass

README.md, after:

# OpenConext-attribute-mapper

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/OpenConext/OpenConext-attribute-mapper.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/OpenConext/OpenConext-attribute-mapper)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/github/OpenConext/OpenConext-attribute-mapper/coverage.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/OpenConext/OpenConext-attribute-mapper)

Attribute Mapper which can link federated accounts to a central Identity Provider account in order to gain access to ServiceProviders (e.g. eduGain) that are
not connected to the home institution of the user.

## [Getting started](#getting-started)

### [System Requirements](#system-requirements)

- Java 7
- Maven 3
- MySQL 5.5+
- npm

### [Create database](#create-database)

Connect to your local mysql database: `mysql -uroot`

Execute the following to create a local database compliant with travis:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE `attribute_mapper`;
grant all on `attribute_mapper`.* to 'root'@'localhost';
```

### [Building and running](#building-and-running)

This project uses Spring Boot and Maven. To run locally, type:

```bash
mvn spring-boot:run -Drun.jvmArguments="-Dspring.profiles.active=dev"
```

When developing, it's convenient to just execute the applications main-method, which is in [Application](src/main/java/am/Application.java).

With the `dev` modus you don't have to login and you can mimic the different steps:

```bash
http://localhost:8080/mappings?step=2
```

Without the `dev` modus you will need to login and an attempt is made to actually send emails for conformation.

The application uses node-sass to compile the sass to css. First install the dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Then you can generate the css with:

```bash
npm run build-css
```

Or use nodemon to watch the scss files:

```bash
npm run watch-scss
```


## [Flow](#flow)

The production flow and the Attribute-Mapper role is depicted in [this image](src/main/resources/static/images/attribute-mapper.001.jpeg).

## [Private signing keys and public certificates](#signing-keys)

The SAML Spring Security library needs a private DSA key and the public certificates of the IdentityProviders. The public certificates can be copied
from the metadata.

```bash
mvn -Dtest=am.saml.KeyPairGenerator test
```bash

Or you can generate the private / public key for the Attribute-Mapper SP with openssl:
 
```bash
openssl req -subj '/O=Organization, CN=AttributeMapper/' -newkey rsa:2048 -new -x509 -days 3652 -nodes -out oidc.crt -keyout am.pem
```

The Java KeyStore expects a pkcs8 DER format for RSA private keys so we have to re-format that key:

```bash
openssl pkcs8 -nocrypt  -in am.pem -topk8 -out am.der
```
 
Remove the whitespace, heading and footer from the am.crt and am.der:

```bash
cat am.der |head -n -1 |tail -n +2 | tr -d '\n'; echo
cat am.crt |head -n -1 |tail -n +2 | tr -d '\n'; echo
```

Above commands work on linux distributions. On mac you can issue the same command with `ghead` after you install `coreutils`:

```bash
brew install coreutils

cat am.der |ghead -n -1 |tail -n +2 | tr -d '\n'; echo
cat am.crt |ghead -n -1 |tail -n +2 | tr -d '\n'; echo
```

Add the am key pair to the application.properties file:

```bash
am.private.key=${output from cleaning the der file}
am.public.certificate=${output from cleaning the crt file}
```

Add the EB and central IdP certificates to the application.properties file:

```bash
surfconext_idp.public.certificate=${copy & paste from the metadata}
surfconext_idp.public.certificate=${copy & paste from the metadata}
```

## [Attribute Authority](#attribute-authority)

The Attribute Authority endpoint is protected with Basic Authentication and requires the unspecified nameID

```bash
curl -v -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-type: application/json" --user am_aa_client:secret http://localhost:8080/api/user/urn:collab:person:idin.nl:confirmed
```

## [SAML metadata](#saml-metadata)

The metadata is generated on the fly and is displayed on http://localhost:8080/saml/metadata
